---
title: 3️⃣ Tips and Tricks for Knowing What To Test on Your JavaScript Components
publishedAt: 2023-04-22
origin: twitter
type: atomic essay
link: https://typeshare.co/amydutton/posts/3-tips-and-tricks-for-knowing-what-to-test-on-your-javascript-components
---

If you're just getting started in testing, **one of the biggest challenges is knowing _what_ to test.**

There are a few tips and tricks that I use that give me confidence that I have a solid test suite:

## Tip #1 (and the Most Important): How does the user interact with your component? What are they expecting?

Don't bother checking every prop that is passed into your component. Users don't care about variable names and props. In fact, they probably don't even know what that is! The only thing that matters to them is the interface and how they interact with it. For example, if it's a button component, they care about the button label and that the appropriate action is fired when they click on it.

## Tip #2: What are the acceptance criteria in your story?

Assuming you're working from a backlog of stories, each feature has a user story that describes who the user is (i.e. admin, user, role), their motivation, and what they're trying to do. A story should also include acceptance criteria. This is the definition of done and the things that need to be QAed for the feature to be accepted and merged into the codebase.

## Tip #3: What stories did you write in Storybook for this component?

Every component that I create has a corresponding story within Storybook. This serves as living documentation for the project. Each state of the component should have its own story within Storybook. Going back to the button example from earlier, I'd include stories for various sizes (small, medium, and large) and button states (disabled, loading, and active). These elements should all be tested as well.

## BONUS: Look at code coverage, but don't it's not everything.

In your test runner, you can run a code coverage report. This will check your code to make sure that every line has a corresponding test. This can ensure that code is not skipped. However, you should not strive for 100% coverage. Not all tests are created equal. Tests written for static content is not nearly as important as the tests written for the checkout experience.

When you're making a list of all the tests you need to write, think through each of these tips to make sure that the most important pieces are accounted for.
