---
title: 1 Big Mistake I Keep Making in Content Creation
publishedAt: 2023-04-17
origin: twitter
type: atomic essay
link: https://typeshare.co/amydutton/posts/1-big-mistake-i-keep-making-in-content-creation
---

When it comes to creating content, I know the secret ingredient is consistency. It's not the easy answer because it requires time and discipline.

I can plan with the best of them. I write out goals and an elaborate content calendar. I know what success looks like, and I have the best of intentions.

But, actually executing on that...meh?! That's an entirely different story. I might be able to deliver for a few days, maybe even a couple of weeks, but then something happens...

I've questioned myself. Is it motivation? A lack of willpower? or discipline? Am I self-sabotaging?

No. My problem is the plans that I've created are great, but not sustainable.

## My Big Mistake is I'm aiming for amazing, from the beginning, when I should start small and look for gradual improvements.

_(Thank you, [James Clear](https://jamesclear.com/).)_

**Statistics say 43% of our daily actions are habits.** We don't even think about what we're doing! And, if I want to develop a habit for content creation it has to be easy. The key is:

### "Make it so easy you can't say no." - Leo Babauta

I've written an "Atomic Essay," (200-300 words) everyday for the last 10 days. -- I'm halfway there to establishing that habit! This is so much more approachable and sustainable than the 1500 word blog post or ultimate guide that I want to write every day. - That's only a recipe for burnout. Or just as bad, not delivering anything at all.
