---
title: One of the Most Valuable Skills You Can Learn is Learning How You Learn
publishedAt: 2023-05-16
origin: twitter
type: atomic essay
link: https://typeshare.co/amydutton/posts/one-of-the-most-valuable-skills-you-can-learn-is-learning-how-you-learn
---

When I started college, my dad told me the best most valuable skill you can learn is learning how to learn. Up to this point, I had been in school my entire life. So, naturally, as a naive 18-year-old, my initial reaction was, "Whatever?! I think I know how to learn." But my dad was right, especially when it comes to technology.

If you want to stay current in this field, you have to constantly teach yourself new skills, frameworks, languages, and best practices. You're constantly learning. (But, also, why I love it!)

Generally, there are 4 different types of learners:

1. **Visual Learners** - Learn through sight and understand information best when it's presented in a visual way. (That's me!)

2. **Auditory Learners** - Learn best through sound and will often use their own voice to reinforce new concepts and ideas.

3. **Kinesthetic Learners** - These are tactile learners that learn best through experiences.

4. **Reading/Writing Learners**- Here, there is some overlap with visual learners. But, reading/writing learners love the written word.

In addition, I know that when I'm learning a topic, I will gather as many sources as possible. Not everyone will communicate in a way that resonates. Different sources will emphasize different aspects. It's also important to gain different viewpoints and perspectives so that I can form my own.

Just because something doesn't click the first time doesn't mean anything about my own intellectual abilities or capacity to understand. Give yourself grace and know that new concepts take time to process. This is learning how to learn.
