---
title: The 20 Apps that are so Important, I Keep in my Dock
publishedAt: 2023-05-19
origin: twitter
type: atomic essay
link: https://typeshare.co/amydutton/posts/the-20-apps-that-are-so-important-i-keep-in-my-dock
---

There are 20 apps that I use on a daily basis. In fact, they are so important to the work I do as a designer, developer, and content creator that I keep them in my Dock for easy access.

1. **FontBase** - I use FontBase to manage all the fonts on my computer. As a designer, I've collected a lot over the years and can't afford to have them all loaded in all the time. FontBase has a free plan that has all the features I need.

2. **Messages** - I've bought into the Apple system, so the Messages app is key for sending text messages and staying connected with friends and family.

3. **Spark Mail** - This is my go-to email app. I have it running on my laptop, iPad, and iPhone. The main selling point for me is the Unified Inbox. I have so many email addresses, I can't remember which email comes to which address. Here, all email comes to a single location that I can search across. There are also some great team features. (I don't use these, but they'd be handy if something changes.)

4. **Fantastical** - I use Fantastical to manage all my calendars. I have the laptop, iPad, and iPhone apps. The user experience, especially regarding gestures, is phenomenal, but my favorite feature is the menubar. At a glance, I can quickly see the date, look at my calendar, and add upcoming events.

5. **Notion** - I've mentioned Notion before, but I run my life out of it. Out of this entire list, it'd be the last one I'd give up. I keep track of projects, tasks, lists, ideas, notes, recipes, goals, content creation, and reference material.

6. **Pocket Casts** - This is my pod catcher of choice. It has some great features for organizing and downloading and syncs across all my devices.

7. **Spotify** - If I'm working, Spotify is playing. Recently, I've realized there's a correlation between my productivity and which playlist I'm listening to. It's become a good "hack" for kicking me into a flow state.

8. **Twitter** - I use the native twitter app to check my feed and notifications. Even though it lives in my dock, I try not to keep it open all day and hijack my train of thought.

9. **Slack** - Almost all of work communication happens through Slack.

10. **Discord** - I've made a lot of friends while traveling to various conferences. Discord seems to be the easiest place to communicate and stay in touch.

11. **Chrome** - Chrome is still my browser of choice when it comes to development.

12. **Arc** - Arc is another great browser. I've set up spaces and tabbed groups for specific tasks. I've found myself working inside Chrome, but consuming content within Arc.

13. **VS Code** - This is my IDE of choice. I've customized it with snippets, shortcuts, and extensions. I've used the Cobalt 2 Theme and Dank Mono font for years.

14. **Hyper** - I use the terminal built into VS Code a lot, but if I ever need a dedicated terminal, I lean on Hyper.

15. **Tower** - I'm familiar with all the git commands, but Tower just makes working with git easier. I like having a graphical user interface (GUI) for managing repositories, commits, and previewing file changes.

16. **Figma** - Almost all of my design work happens within Figma. Within the last five years it's become the industry standard.

17. **Photoshop** - Even though Photoshop has taken a backseat to Figma, I still use it to quickly manipulate an images.

18. **Illustrator** - Anytime I need to modify a vector or design a logo, I'll go to Illustrator. Figma has a lot of the same functionality built-in, but its still easier to manipulate points and paths within Illustrator.

19. **Premiere** - Premiere is my go to for editing video. I may do a rough cut in Descript, but I'll still bring everything into Premiere for the finishing touches.

20. **Descript** - This app has become an integral part of my production process for editing podcasts and videos. I can edit faster inside Descript than Premiere. And with cloud support, it makes it easy to collaborate and share files with editors.

I spend a majority of my day within these applications and each play an integral part in my ability to produce and stay productive.
