---
title: How Do You Know What to Testing within Your Web Applications?
publishedAt: 2023-05-30
origin: twitter
type: atomic essay
link: https://typeshare.co/amydutton/posts/how-do-you-know-what-to-testing-within-your-web-applications
---

The best advice that I ever received when it comes to testing came from Kent C. Dodds:

## Think about how the user interacts with your application and test those features.

It doesn't matter to your user whether props were passed in correctly or variables were set correctly. Heck, your user probably doesn't even know what a prop and a variable are! But, your user will be frustrated if your application doesn't work the way that they're expecting.

Here's a checklist of things to consider:

- **User Interface** - Does the UI appear correctly across various browsers and devices

- **User experience** - This includes the happy path, as well as edge cases with unexpected user input. Is the state changing properly and communicating accurately?

- **Integration Tests** - Are all the parts of the application working together?

- **Performance** - Stress testing, load testing, and scalability testing

- **Security** - Test for security vulnerabilities, including testing input validation, secure data transmission, secure data storage, and permissions.

- **Accessibility** - Your application should be accessible to users of all abilities. This includes testing text readability, color contrast, and keyboard navigation.

Testing is essential for maintaining the quality of your codebase and increases your confidence as you develop and integrate new features.
