---
title: 13 Lucky Apps that Sit in my Menubar and Boost my Productivity Every Day
publishedAt: 2023-05-01
origin: twitter
type: atomic essay
link: https://typeshare.co/amydutton/posts/13-lucky-apps-that-sit-in-my-menubar-and-boost-my-productivity-every-day
---

I love experimenting with new tools and finding things that will shave a minute or two off my normal workflow. Over time, especially if I use that tool daily, adds up.

👉 **#1: CleanShot** is a screenshot replacement but does so much more. Record videos, copy text from an image to your clipboard, and capture a long vertical area where you have to scroll.

👉 **#2: iStat Menu** provides a slew of tools you can put in your menu bar. I can see how much hard drive space is available, how much RAM is being used, my upload/download speed, the weather, and extra details about my battery life.

👉 **#3: Fantastical** is the best calendar app I've found. What puts it above other applications is the menubar app which allows me to view my calendar and add events quickly.

👉 **#4: Yoink** provides a "drawer" that sits on the edge of my screen. I can temporarily store files as I move them around my computer or need to reference them from across applications.

👉 **#5: Glyphfinder** makes looking up an emoji or Unicode character easy. I use this all the time to find symbols and fractions.

👉 **#6: Better Touch Tool** extends my keyboard, mouse, and trackpad use. I can add additional features and triggers that aren't otherwise available.

👉 **#7: Keyboard Maestro** allows you to set up workflows (macros) for anything and everything. I can have it transform text (make it uppercase, make it lowercase) or manipulate images just to name a few.

👉 **#8: Karabiner Elements** gives you extra control over your keyboard mappings. I've turned my right shift key into a caps lock key, my right command key into an escape key, and my caps lock key into a "hyper" key (Ctrl + Opt + Cmd + Shift) which makes it easier to call keyboard shortcuts.

👉 **#9: Backblaze** gives me peace of mind and regularly backs up my computer. In the best way, I never notice this app is running.

👉 **#10: Hazel** helps my files and folders stay organized. My favorite use case: I have a folder on my desktop for receipts. I'll drop PDFs into that folder, and Hazel will rename the file based on the date and move it to the appropriate folder.

👉 **#11: Default Folder X** has been in my arsenal for ~20 years. That's right! This app makes using the Finder even easier. I can set up favorites and shortcuts to quickly access my most used directories.

👉 **#12: Contrast** lets me quickly check the foreground and background colors to see if the contrast ratio is accessible.

👉 **#13: Sip** allows me to quickly grab the HEX value of any color on my screen. I can also store color palettes, making it easy to work with brands.
