---
title: My Go To Tools for Designing Anything
publishedAt: 2023-06-17
origin: twitter
type: atomic essay
link: https://typeshare.co/amydutton/posts/my-go-to-tools-for-designing-anything
---

A tool’s purpose is to help you get you from point A to B faster. The tool doesn’t make you creative but it does make you more efficient and productive. Here are my go to tools within my tool chest:

- **Adobe Creative Cloud Suite** - these are my oldest tools and are tried and true. Anytime I have to do serious image manipulation I reach for Photoshop. Heavy vector/illustration work? Illustrator. Video editing? Premiere. Print Layouts? InDesign. Photo editing? Lightroom.

- **Figma** - Figma is perfect for digital work (web design, product design, social media images). This tool makes it easy to collaborate, prototype, and transition from design to development.

- **CleanShot** - CleanShot is perfect for taking screenshots, recording your screen, and annotating images. This tool is essential for visual research and keeping track of my inspiration.

- **Find Dimensions** - This app works alongside CleanShot to measure the distance between elements.

- **Sip** - Sip is a small app that sits in my menu bar. I can grab the color of anything on screen. I can also create and save color palettes for various brands I work with.

- **Contrast** - Contrast is another app that sits in my menu bar. I have hot keys set up to quickly set the foreground and background colors, checking the contrast for accessibility.

- **IconJar** - IconJar makes it easy to search and save icon sets.

- **Dropbox** - I save everything on Dropbox. I love having everything backed up online, for easy access or sharing project files with others.

- **Fontbase** - I have thousands of fonts that I’ve accumulated over the years. Fontbase makes it easy to preview fonts and only activate the ones I need.

With these tools the sky is the limit. I can design in multiple mediums for various purposes.

What tools do you use? Did I miss anything? Is there overlap?
