---
title: Today, I said goodbye to my grandmother, maybe forever.
publishedAt: 2023-05-10
origin: twitter
type: atomic essay
link: https://typeshare.co/amydutton/posts/today-i-said-goodbye-to-my-grandmother-maybe-forever
---

Today, I said goodbye to my grandmother, maybe forever.

Naturally, this has left me thinking about my own life and my mortality.

> At Warren Buffet's annual “Woodstock for Capitalists” he said: “You should write your obituary and then try to figure out how to live up to it. It’s not that complicated.”

My grandmother is 102. She's lived a long, full life.

It's made me wonder:

> What are the things that I want to accomplish so that at the end, I can say, "I've lived a full life."

-- This is regardless of age because I don't have control over the timing, but I do have control over how I spend it.

1. **Excellent wife.** My relationship with Henry is the most important relationship I have.

2. **Fantastic mother.** One of the greatest privileges I have in life is watching my children grow up and helping them become all that they are meant to be.

3. **Great teacher.** I love teaching other people and witnessing that aha moment where everything clicks. Education enables us to do more and be more.

4. **Maximizer.** Education alone is not enough. Knowledge by itself creates pride. You have to do something with the knowledge you have. I want to help people maximize their gifts and talents, establishing businesses, creating jobs, building opportunities, and expanding possibilities for themselves and the people around them.

This is cliche but true: I want to leave the world in a better than I found it. This is my legacy.
