---
title: "Building Better RedwoodJS Documentation: A Focus on Information Architecture"
publishedAt: 2023-12-06
origin: twitter
type: atomic essay
link: https://typeshare.co/amydutton/posts/building-better-redwoodjs-documentation-a-focus-on-information-architecture
---

I've been thinking a lot about Information Architecture (IA) when it comes to the RedwoodJS documentation (feedback welcome).

A few things I've realized:

- **IA makes it easy for users to find and navigate relevant content.** In order for it to "work" properly, it needs to be **aligned with user's mental models, reducing cognitive load and enhancing usability.**
- **IA needs to be categorized and labeled to improve discovery.** Users need to be able to quickly locate and access the information they need, otherwise, they'll get frustrated and leave.
- **IA can help users understand context, hierarchy, and connections between different pieces of information.**
- **IA can should support task completion.** Usually, when someone comes to the documentation, they're trying to solve a specific task. IA should guide the user through the task or workflow, helping them achieve their goals.
- **IA should provide a consistent experience.** Naming should be consistent to reduce confusion.
- **IA should facilitate scalability and growth.** We've felt this at Redwood. As the project grows and we want to add more documentation. Where does it live? There should be a clear path forward.
- **IA should support personalization.** It should accommodate the users' settings and preferences. [Supabase](https://supabase.com) is the perfect example. When appropriate, they'll use my table names, properties, and keys in the documentation, when I'm logged in.

I'm thoroughly convinced that an open source project lives and dies by its documentation. IA is the key to providing a cohesive user experience and contributing to heir overall satisfaction, engagement, and success.
