---
title: Want To Move from a Junior to a Senior Product Designer?
publishedAt: 2023-04-18
origin: twitter
type: atomic essay
link: https://typeshare.co/amydutton/posts/want-to-move-from-a-junior-to-a-senior-product-designer
---

Most junior designers have good taste. They have a sense of what looks good and what doesn't. But, there's a gap between their work and a senior's. The challenge is closing the gap.

You have to be able to look at your work in progress and know what needs to change in order to take your design to the next level.

This can be overwhelming if you're looking at your design as a whole.

Make it easier on yourself:

## Break it down. Analyze one element at a time and make small incremental changes.

- **Color** - Have you established a standard color palette that compliments your brand? Have you established a hierarchy with your colors so one color is considered primary? another secondary? tertiary?

- **Typography** - How many fonts are you using? Limit yourself — no more than three.

- **Spacing** - Do elements have enough room to breathe? Are related elements close together?

- **Visual Hierarchy** - Guide the user through your design. What's the most important element on the page?

- **Style and Personality** - Does the personality of the design complement the brand or the content?

- **Consistency** - Are you using elements consistently throughout your design? Are all the headings in the same font, size, and treatment? What about the primary action buttons?

- **Alignment** - Use a grid.

## Combined these small changes make a big difference.
