---
title: I Made a Mistake. I Believed Business Values Didn't Matter.
publishedAt: 2023-04-09
origin: twitter
type: atomic essay
link: https://typeshare.co/amydutton/posts/i-made-a-mistake-i-believed-business-values-didnt-matter
---

I thought business values were fluffy, made to make a company feel good about itself. They look good printed in large letters and posted on the wall.

Then, I read Sarah Drasner's Book [Engineering Management for the Rest of Us](https://amzn.to/3vxIQ5A). In it, she says:

## One of the first places employees get frustrated is when there's a misalignment of values: personal, department, and company.

I decided to put her wisdom to the test and incorporate a value-based exercise with my team. I took a list of ~30 popular values, and we all placed our initials next to the terms that resonated with us. Then, we took turns talking about each value and explaining why it was (or wasn't) important to us.

I ran my own company for 7 years before joining ZEAL full-time. During that time, I came to appreciate independence and autonomy.

One of my colleagues shared how they value teamwork and collaboration. They were self-taught, with no one to bounce ideas with or learn from. Prior to joining ZEAL, they were a Lone Ranger.

At that moment, a light bulb went off.

These two sets of values: independence and autonomy vs teamwork and collaboration, are not right or wrong. But, in some cases, had created tension within our relationship because our expectations were different and what we valued was misaligned.

I thought I was enabling my report, giving them ownership and freedom. They felt like I had thrown them in the deep end and hadn't provided the support they needed to succeed. **Through a simple conversation about values, we saw where our differences in values had created conflict and were quickly able to resolve the situation.**

Now, this is a hill I will die on. As a leader, it's important to not only know what your values are, but the values of everyone on your team in order to ensure its success.
